---
templateKey: event-post
warehouseID: 'WAREHOUSE #1.2'
title: Launch PORTAL 002
location: 'State of Fashion, De Melkfabriek, Arnhem'
date: 2018-07-21T14:00:00.000Z
---
This launch took the shape of a conversation between Elisa van Joolen, Anouk Beckers and Renee van der Hoek adressing the following: Could different garments worn by different people be related? In what ways are emotional and monetary values of clothing connected? To whom does a piece of clothing belong?

*PORTAL* offers a ‘way in’ to understanding garments from a multitude of overlapping and intersecting perspectives. The taped lines of the *PORTAL* map criss-cross the surface of the collective canvas mapping the ways in which our clothing can be a trace of the connections between and intersections of personal, economic, social, cultural and political realms.

For every edition visitors to each location are asked to take off a garment, make an outline of it with tape and answer a series of questions about their garment regarding its production (Where was it made?), materials (What is it made of?), ownership (Is it yours?) and value (How much did it cost? What is the emotional value?). This collected information culminates in a room filling installation creating a landscape of personal stories that connect to form a new fashion network. So what does this collection of data uncover?

As you will see mapped out on the pages of the *PORTAL 002* zine there are surprising details that emerge from the collective document of State of Fashion in Arnhem. 41% of all garments and accessories are gifts. Do we treasure or wear more often those garments that have been gifted? What does it mean to ‘half’ own a garment, share it rather than own it or borrow it? How do these shifting relationships to ownership change our interactions with a garment and perhaps more importantly how are our interactions and relationships with other people influenced through the modes of transaction and exchange that are enabled by this?

*PORTAL* depicts the complex and layered system that is the reality of the clothing we wear. It connects locations (all items that are made in China are connected with pink tape) and temporalities (all items that were purchased in 2018 are connected with brown tape) that are not usually part of how fashion presents itself. In the context of the fashion exhibition *PORTAL* inverts our gaze, shining a spotlight on the intricacies of our own outfits and extraordinary aspects of the everyday as opposed to the myth of the exclusive fashion image worn by exhibition mannequins.

With the acknowledgement that clothing has meaning and value beyond economic terms the potential for a new kind of fashion narrative opens up. This is a narrative that has a different relationship to value. As suggested in *Facing Value: Radical Perspectives from the Arts*: “Reformulating value as a constituting factor in an open and caring society requires a ‘tilting vision’.” *PORTAL* provides an entryway to such a vision, one that begins to prioritise values that are ephemeral and yet integral in “influencing hearts and minds and shaping the way we live together”.

*PORTAL* captures and visualises information that circumvents established hierarchies and disrupts the homogeneity of the commercially driven fashion system with the refreshing diversity of fashion that is worn; embodied and imperfect. With this comes a sense of agency and empowerment for the wearer. Essentially it is claiming fashion back from the realm of financial gain into the space of the commons, undermining the status of branding as the primary producer of value and firmly redirecting our attention to the human value generated by clothing as an interface mediating the interactions between our bodies and the world around us.\
\[Text by Ruby Hoette.]