---
templateKey: event-post
warehouseID: 'WAREHOUSE #3.3'
title: Launch A Magazine Reader 03
location: 'Onomatopee, Eindhoven'
date: 2019-10-26T17:00:00.000Z
---
A conversation with Femke de Vries, Chet Bugter and Zuzana Kostelanská.

Exhibition created by Femke de Vries, Seok Park and Zuzana Kostelanská.

This mini-exhibition and zine produced at Onomatopee in October along a workshop October 4 and 5 2019, seek out to provide insight into the mechanisms of value production that lie at the core of fashion today. Through (re-)reading, analysing and discussing a magazine, *A Magazine Reader* 03, serves as material for investigating how a certain topic is viewed upon and being sold through fashion mass media. A Magazine Reader 03 is designed by Zuzana Kostelanská.

In this version of *A Magazine Reader* we disconnect the elements, break the joints, cut the seams, unravel body parts and disconnect garments from bodies, from backgrounds, objects, animals and gadgets, with the aim to create space to critically explore the construct of fashion. Out of which elements is today’s fashion made? What do these elements mean? What is left when you cut out the garment? When you have just arms, legs and a head of a model. There’s some jewelry. A necklace, some small rings. What happens when we erase the garment and the model all-together: the background surfaces; there’s a horse, a mountain and a small house. And don’t forget the text, the brand-names mentioned, the price. Paging through the magazine you bump into perfume, facial creams, rosemary water, travel suggestions, gadgets, books and so much more than just the garment.

It is through cutting the paper, highlighting, marking or erasing that we are able to lay bare these various elements that fashion is constructed of. By drawing them apart and seeing them as separates, we de-mystify. Although the cut has been described as a violent act it is also seen as one that is constructive. The same can be said about erasure which could be interpreted as a passive-aggressive act, but on the other hand, it also highlights the things that remain. In this workshop these acts can be seen as acts that question the violence and pervasiveness of mystification in fashion. In the fashion magazine, every possible element is used to create stories and myths of a future reality. These are commodified stories of hope, dreams and endless transformations into a better self. They are composed of so much more than garments alone, and in such a way that the joints and seams are smoothed out, turning these stories into a reality, a truth. By cutting through these dream worlds, drawing the various elements apart, erasing one and highlighting the other, we again become aware of the various elements in this system: we can see them as individual parts, rather than a homogenized bundle. We are able to recognize the various elements that the glossy smooth fashion dream is made of.

*A Magazine Reader* is an ongoing research trajectory and series of zines initiated by Femke de Vries and Hanka van der Voet. The series of workshops dissects and critically analyzes contemporary fashion magazines from various perspectives subsequently reproducing its content in an alternative form. By re-reading the magazine’s content, interrogating it and analysing its words, images, materiality, items and strategies, we change the ways in which we read fashion.